Germany has been accused of aiding and
abetting genocide in Gaza in a case
before the United Nations Top Court it
was brought by Nicaragua and calls for
emergency measures to stop Germany from
selling weapons to Israel it also wants
Berlin to restore funding to the un's
agency for Palestinian refugees unra
Nicaragua's lawyer heard harsh words for
the Dual role Germany's playing in what
the icj's already ruled to be a
plausible case of genocide
it is indeed a pathetic excuse to the P
Palestinian children women and men in
Gaza to provide humanitarian Aid
including through air drops on the one
hand and to furnish the weapons and
military equipment that are used to kill
and enate them and to kill also
humanitarian Aid workers as most
recently evidenced by the missile itch
against vehicles and workers of world
Central Kitchen on the other hand
let's hear more now from Steph Fass and
she is in the hag with
more it must have been an uncomfortable
two hours here for Germany at the
world's highest court in the heag
Nicaragua had some harsh words for
Germany saying it is facilitating
genocide in Gaza it's an interesting and
unprecedented case because the two
countries here at the court Nicaragua
and Germany are not directly involved in
the atrocities that are happening in
Gaza but uh n AGA argues that Germany as
a signatory to the genocide convention
has the obligation to do everything it
can to prevent genocide let alone not
facilitate it uh Germany is the second
largest supplier of weapons to Israel
after the United States and in
2023 uh its supplies have uh grown
tenfold compared to the year before and
many of these weapons have still been
exported after October 7 uh anti-tank
weapons ammunition uh drones uh all used
according to Nicaragua or at least a lot
of it in Gaza against the civilian
population there so this is an
unprecedented case Nicaragua said that
Germany has be held accountable and
ordered the court to uh tell uh Germany
immediately to stop supplying these
weapons and the arguments uh Germany has
used as for example that its commitment
unconditionally to Israel comes from
basically connecting its own existence
to the existence of Israel is misleading
because this applies to the Jewish uh
population Jewish people but not to
Israel and it also says that the
business uh has gone really up uh armed
sales the armed manufacturers are making
lots more money so it's not just
business as usual uh Germany supplying
weapons but the business even has gone
better so we will hear on Tuesday from
Germany it has the chance to defend
itself and then in a few weeks we will
hear if the court will have provisional
measures against Germany step fast in Al
jazer
de lawyer and Diplomat Tanya Von gishan
is representing Germany before the
international court of justice she says
the government is upholding
international
law Germany rejects the allegations made
by Nicaragua to gay Germany does not and
never did violate the genocide
convention nor International
humanitarian law neither directly nor
indirectly on the contrary Germany's
committed to the uphold of international
law and this is what we work for
internationally we will tomorrow present
our position in detail to this
court so much I can already tell you
today Nicaragua's presentation was
grossly biased and we will be telling
you tomorrow how we fully live up to our
responsib AB
ilities let's go to Dominic kanaine who
is lifeless in Berlin Germany clearly
saying it's being misrepresented by
Nicaragua in court today is that the
general feeling inside
Germany the thing to to remember when
considering the situation in the ha and
the way that the German government is
playing it is that that's what we were
just hearing there they haven't changed
that view going back some considerable
time now remember the situation here
they say that what they are doing is
entirely consistent with their
commitment to the existence of the state
of Israel there is a polarization in
society between those who endorse that
view who believe that Israel has a right
to exist and the policy of the
government and other governments going
back through time Visa Israel is
entirely appropriate but then you have
those on the other side who don't accept
the point of view of the government and
who say that the way that they are
refused the right to demonstrate their
disagreement with it is not consistent
with human rights which explains why we
see the sorts of cases being brought
against Germany which have been starting
to gather some momentum in recent
months okay thank you for that Dominic
Kane there for us in Berlin let's
discuss this further with Maran bashara
Maran house significant is this case by
Nicaragua at the icj could it
potentially uh set a legal precedent uh
to deter countries from supporting
military operations involving serious
International crimes well of course I'm
no legal scholar I mean need to
underline that but certainly it's
certainly an interesting precedence that
a southern nation is putting another
Nation on the stand at the icj that's
kind of a bit of a first in the context
of
genocide I think the most paradoxical
part of it is the fact that Germany uh
is being or being put on the stand 80
years after it committed the horrific
genocide against the Jews and others in
Europe and this time it's actually
complicit with the so-called Jewish
State uh that is apparently plausibly
carrying genocide in Gaza according to
the
icj um now
what is troubling in all of that is the
fact that Germans continue you know to
play innocent and naive about that's
something that's unfolded in front of
our eyes for the past six months Joseph
Bell the EU foreign policy Chief says
Israel weaponized hunger that's a war
crime so the EU Chief says of foreign
policy Israel is carrying a war crime
it's weaponizing hunger famine is not
something that is coming fam is a State
of Affair in Gaza today the American
president Germany's Patron in the west
says that Israel bombs Gaza
indiscriminately that's a war crime
every Joe Dick and Harry and Sarah know
that Israel has used disproportionate
weapon force in Gaza that 2,000 lb bombs
on residential buildings and Germany is
still saying oh no what war crimes oh no
you know we're not complicit you are
selling arms you are financially
politically
diplomatically supporting the country
that is carrying all these war crimes in
Gaza against your very commitment to the
genoside convention so there it's not
about Nicaragua per se it's about
everything we've been reporting the
facts of the matter the past six months
also paradoxical in the same context is
that Germany continues to support Israel
unconditionally despite all of
that the the the the the killing the
death and injury of tens of thousands of
Palestinians including some
20,000 children and women in Gaza killed
by Israeli
weapons and yet some six members of
Honor was 13,000 staff are accused
accused of joining on in the on the
October 7 and
until
today froze its assistant to a UN agency
in in Gaza so it's quite
disturbing for Germany to play innocent
when in fact it's its arms to the pit
are really sunk in gaza's Blood and
talking of arms Maran do you feel that
there is this growing momentum now uh of
stopping Western governments providing
weapons to Israel now well certainly uh
what we've seen in the UK for example
you know the big protest movements on
the in front of the trade office and now
a number of functionaries within the
trade office saying we cannot continue
licensing weapons sales to Israel the
protest movement in Europe certainly in
the United States a whole bunch of
Democrats including the former uh uh
Congress uh uh speaker Nancy Pelosi
saying we need to stop the weapons to in
Israel that continue to deny food and
medicine to the people continues to use
bomb against the people in Gaza so I
think certainly there's a momentum
towards uh uh towards punishing Israel
or towards uh cutting or freezing
military and other aids to Israel
because I think everyone is coming to
the understanding speaking of Germany
but also of the UK and the United States
Israel closest Ally that one thing to
support Israel and to continue to say
you know we need to support Israel
another thing is to support the
Netanyahu government which Biden has
explicitly said this is basically a very
extreme government that needs to change
because it is a government of fascists
and
Fanatics to confuse that with Israel in
general right by the UK the Germany and
the United States is not only foolish
it's it's also shortsighted and in the
context of Gaza it's not only sadistic
it's also aimless because why at this
point in time 6 months into genocide do
they continue to support Israel with
weapons always good to speak to you uh
Al jazer senior political analyst Marwan
Bashar there for us